README.md, before:

# Password-Generator

## Description 

The task that I was given was to create a functional password generator. The client wants a website that can generate a strong password for whenever they need to protect sensitive data. They request the following for their password generator.

Given a user requires a new secure password,
1. When the user click the button to generate a password, a series of prompts is presented for password criteria.
2. The user is required to enter the number of characters they wish their password to be. The number is between 8 and 128.
3. The user is asked to choose one or more of the following criteria: lowercase, uppercase, number, and/or special characters.
4. The password generated is displayed on the page.


The Password Generator website looks like:
![Password Generator Website Screenshot](passwordgeneratorwebsite.PNG) 

In this project, I used javascript to code the password generator.

These are the specifics of the password generator:
1. Click on the button to begin
2. Enter a number between 8 and 128. If at any time you press Cancel at this point, it will cancel the password generator. If a number that is not bewteen 8 and 128 or a nonnumeric input was entered, the appropriate alert will display.
3. The next part is to choose at least one of the 4 options: lowercase, uppoercase, number and/or special characters. If none were picked, you will be asked once again until you choose at least one of the 4 options.
4. Finally a password will be generated.


Link to the Github repository: https://github.com/akwanmtl/Password-Generator

Link to the website: https://akwanmtl.github.io/Password-Generator/

## Credits

* [License badge link](https://gist.github.com/lukas-h/2a5d00690736b4c3a7ba)


## License

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) [2020] [Annie Kwan]

Commit message:

added comments and added additional information in readme file

README.md, after:

# Password-Generator

## Description 

The task that I was given was to create a functional password generator. The client wants a website that can generate a strong password for whenever they need to protect sensitive data. They request the following for their password generator.

Given a user requires a new secure password,
1. When the user click the button to generate a password, a series of prompts is presented for password criteria.
2. The user is required to enter the number of characters they wish their password to be. The number is between 8 and 128.
3. The user is asked to choose one or more of the following criteria: lowercase, uppercase, number, and/or special characters.
4. The password generated is displayed on the page.


The Password Generator website looks like:
![Password Generator Website Screenshot](passwordgeneratorwebsite.PNG) 

In this project, I used javascript to code the password generator.

These are the specifics of the password generator:
1. Click on the button to begin
2. Enter a number between 8 and 128. If at any time you press Cancel at this point, it will cancel the password generator. If a number that is not bewteen 8 and 128 or a nonnumeric input was entered, the appropriate alert will display.
3. The next part is to choose at least one of the 4 options: lowercase, uppoercase, number and/or special characters. If none were picked, you will be asked once again until you choose at least one of the 4 options.
4. Each time you choose one of the 4 options, one random character of that type is added to the password. The remaining password is filled by randomly choosing among the type of characters selected. 
5. The password is shuffled before being generated.
6. To copy the password, you can click on the textarea. The password will be copied into the clipboard automatically.


Link to the Github repository: https://github.com/akwanmtl/Password-Generator

Link to the website: https://akwanmtl.github.io/Password-Generator/

## Credits

* [License badge link](https://gist.github.com/lukas-h/2a5d00690736b4c3a7ba)
* [Durstenfeld algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisher%E2%80%93Yates_shuffle#The_modern_algorithm)


## License

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) [2020] [Annie Kwan]
